Hi we didn't this lecture we're going to see how we can retrieve information from the five year star
database.
So far we have created our feed we have controller.
All we have to do is get the information from database and a sign to those views.
So in here we have our documents right.
All we have to do is just find a way to get those documents.
So if you go to the documentation and if we click on the U.S. we can see how to get those values from
the five year star database as usual.
So in the left hand side we see the court file your store and in here we have the read data.
So let me click on this.
Get Data was and as you can see we have two options.
We can use this get data once in order to get this data for one time only.
Okay.
And this is gets document and we can have another option as well.
We can change for we can listen for changing values so we can listen for real time updates.
So if you click over here you will see that rather than saying get a document we say at snapshot listener
in here.
So it listens for changes and if it sees any change in the database so it makes us aware of the need
values so that we can update our views in real time.
So let me show you how it's done.
We have to create a new function in here.
And in fact we don't have to create this function but it would be much better because it's going to
be some kind of long function.
And I don't want to feel a poll.
We did load with this.
So I'm going to create does get data from file your store and write related coding here.
So I'm going to create my five star database so it's going to get from fire started on fire store about
of course in order to do that.
I have to import fire your base in this feed.
We have controller as well.
Right.
So this is the same thing as we did before.
So far you saw that fire sir.
So now I can use this database to add a snapshot listener here.
And in order to do that you can say Forester database dot and you have to specify the collection.
OK.
Remember what our collection was we're using posts.
And after that you can add the snapshot listener.
But before we move on to that I just want to show you a setting related to field value dot server timestamp.
So previously we had to do this we had to create a settings for five star database.
OK.
And then in the settings we have to say settings dot set timestamp in snapshots enabled.
So as you can see this is now deprecated meaning that we don't currently use this but in any case I
just wanted to show you if you get any error regarding to field value that timestamp maybe you may want
to implement this so that you don't get any crash or error later on.
But for right now as you can see we're not no longer using this because it's currently coming to as
default.
OK.
So this is true by default and we don't have to implement this but if we had to we can just say for
your store database not settings is settings.
OK but I'm not going to do that anymore so I'm going to comment this out like this.
Okay.
Slash star star slash so it won't get run but I just wanted to show you just in case and after debt
we have to say fi your star database not collection.
We're going to get our data from a specific collection.
And as you know our collection is posts.
So if you say data collection let's go back to our database.
We to say posts and then you can just say add snapshot listener.
OK so this is what we want.
This is we how we get the query snapshot.
BLOCK And you're going to see what a query snapshot is.
If you hit enter you will see that we get either a snapshot or an error.
So you can write snapshot or a ring here and we're going to start by checking to see if error is not
nil.
Of course if it's not Neil I'm going to print the error or you can just create an alert message as well.
OK and else if this is not they'll if this is actually Neil it means that we get a snapshot.
So what is a snapshot if you write snapshot.
You will see that this is a quirky snapshot type object.
OK.
And in this snapshot we can find our documents.
That's what we're trying to find right.
So how do we get that document.
If you say snapshot that documents it gives you an array in which you will find query documents snapshots.
So this is actually a collection of documents together.
So this contains all of the documents inside of our post collection.
So if we do have for loop in here we can iterate to all these documents one by one.
And that's exactly what we are looking for.
If we were to find another documentary we were to find another snapshot.
We could have just come over here and say something like dots documents.
And if I give a manual string in here like a document I.D. It will just go into that document and I
can come over here to say that collection and I can give it another value as well.
So whatever level you want to go you have to specify in your coat.
Right now I'm only interested in the documents on their posts.
So I'm leaving it as this.
But if you want to get a specific document for example you can get the document I.D. and the right that
collection pulse that document document idea and it will only bring the value of that current document.
So now we FISA stamp shop that documents I will get my array but before I do that I'm going to check
to see if snapshot that is empty is not true.
OK.
Or is not true or is false.
So I'm going to do this only and only if my snapshot is not empty.
And since we're going to work with this snapshot that documents maybe you may want to add as something
like snapshot is not nil as well.
And I know this is not going to be nil because we're checking for errors as since snapshot is not empty.
Means that snapshot is not nil.
I know but just to be on the safe side I'm being extra cautious here because later on I'm going to loop
through all these documents I'm going to say snapshot of documents and I'm not me I'm not making this
optional I'm just the force are wrapping this.
I can easily do that because I have checked for everything up until this moment.
Right.
So this is not going to be Neil not going to be empty and I'm going to say for document in snapshot
the documents.
So it will give me every document in here.
So this is query document snapshot referring my individual documents right now so I can get any value
from a document I want by saying it's document that gets.
So as you can see document is now is trying to any dictionary.
So this is a real dictionary and I can say dots get and it will give me an optional any object.
OK.
And if I say document I.D. for example I can just get the document ideas as well so I can cast this
to a variable and I can use it later on if I want.
So let me print this for right now and we can see if we are getting the result that we want.
So let me call this from my we did load.
OK.
And they're on it on my simulator.
So if you're working with a different structure over four or five your base file your sir.
All you have to do is just make sure you're getting the right document I.D. and you can use this technique
to check your document I.D. as you can see we have these values and they are the same with these documents.
So I'm sure that I'm getting the right document in here.
OK.
Now I can't process this dictionaries I can pass these dictionaries and get those values and I know
my field values right field names actually I know if I see a document that yet I have to say something
like posted by or post comment.
For example let's say posted by it will give me the value of this and it has to be exactly the same
posted by me.
The upper case B in our case and this will be an optional any object.
Remember it gives us an optional edit because we have casted this as any before when we upload these
values.
So all we have to do is just optionally cast this to a string and I'm going to use if left to do that.
I'm going to say if LEDs posted by is document that get posted by optionally strings.
OK so if we can do this it means that we're getting our posted by.
So let me print this right now and let me delete this document I.D. so we can just see the posted by
values and we're to see James said Metallica dot com because I believe we have done.
Both posts with James said Metallica dot com.
And here you go.
We see the user names right now so that's cool.
So we may proceed with other values as well.
Now we can hear if you want you can do a nested IF statement like we did in the art book.
Okay.
And you can just write everything in here as well.
Or you can just create this if that's one by one.
Within the for loop and it depends on your needs.
So if you want to do everything at once and if you don't want to proceed if you don't get the name you
may want to do this with a nested loop nested if control.
So let me create our arrays first because we need some areas to store those information and then connect
them to our views inside our v S4 table view function right.
So we're going to have a user email user comments and remember our like array will be an integer array.
It's not string OK and what else do we have we have an imager.
Right.
We have a user imagery and it's going to be a string right now because we're only getting the URL strings
from the server.
And again I believe we're done here.
So let me go over this and just say soft dots appends not to advance of that user email dot that pens
posted by.
So that's it.
And I will proceed with other values in here as well.
So the next thing would be for me to run the If led one more time I'd rather done.
Posted by.
We may just get the post comment.
OK so let me say he fled.
I remember we can do this inside of this if left as though for just variety I'm doing this in here.
In your case you may want to go for nested if statements and let's go for let's see.
Post Comment.
OK if that post comment is a document that gets so this one.
Yep that's GATS and this is post comment as well with that uppercase C..
I'm going to cast his optionally as string as well and then I'm going to add this to my user commentary
and say that append post comments.
Here you go.
Now I'm going to say if that's like Arie or let's say likes.
If let's likes document that gets OK.
This one that gets likes am going to cast this as an integer design.
OK.
Because we have saved this as an integer remember.
So let's go and say soft like or a dot appends and it asks us to append an integer as well so I'm going
to say he likes.
And finally we have the image array as well right.
So let's do that.
I'm going to say if let's image or a Nazi imagery if let's image document dots let's say image here.
Because it's not image it's just an image URL.
OK.
So you document dot yet image euro.
As String.
So I'm going to punt this to my string Gary as well.
User imagery dot appends and image euro after we're done with this for loop I'm going to call my table
view and reload the data so I'm going to refresh my table to you as usual.
So say soft.
Table view dot reload data.
Okay.
And after doing that this information will get reflected to the table view so that we can see them on
our table view.
So far so good.
In order to show Doe's information to the user I believe you have to do one last thing and that's changing
this number of rousing section and make it's this one equal to user email array.
That's count.
OK.
And in here rather than saying user at email com let's say user email array.
OK this one an index path.
Doctorow and this will take everything from the user email array and display it to the user.
So for like label I'm going to go for likes like array.
Yep this one like array index path.
Dot row.
And of course this will give me an integer and that's not what I want because I want to text.
So let me convert this to be a string.
And then later on I'm going to go for comment as well.
And this is going to give me a string so I don't have to do anything so user comment array index path.
That row and later on we have to find a way to download images from the Urals and show it inside of
our image view.
But I'm going to skip it for right now we're going to do that in the next lecture.
So let's test all the other information and run this and as you can see we only have two values we have
two posts so we have my favorite comment test too like button like count and everything in here.
So far so good.
We only are missing the image right now.
So we have to come up with a way to download those images and show them to the user in our image views.
So that's exactly what we going to do within the next lecture.